KATHMANDU (Reuters) - Hundreds of Nepalis, angered and frustrated by the government's slow response, were digging through rubble themselves on Tuesday to find remains of their loved ones after a devastating earthquake three days ago killed more than 4,000 people. International aid has finally begun arriving in the Himalayan nation of 28 million people but disbursement is slow. A Home Ministry official in the capital, Kathmandu, said the death toll from Saturday's 7.9 magnitude quake stood at 4,010, with 7,598 injured.
A series of aftershocks, severe damage from the quake, creaking infrastructure and a lack of funds have slowed rescue efforts in the impoverished, mountainous country sandwiched between India and China.
Most climbers have now left the Base Camp and abandoned their expeditions, Sherpa porters based there have told the BBC.
Almost a year ago another avalanche at the world's highest peak claimed the lives of 16 Sherpa guides.
At the moment the Nepalese government is refusing to officially announce that there will be no more climbing on Everest this year.
A crush at the main international airport, where relief material and rescue teams are flying in while thousands of residents are trying to leave, has slowed the flow of aid.
India and China were among the first contributors to an international effort to support Nepal's stretched resources.
U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter said two C-17 U.S. Air Force transport planes carrying search-and-rescue personnel and supplies were headed to Nepal. Australia is also sending a C-17 to deliver disaster relief supplies, Foreign Minister Julie Bishop said, and to start ferrying out some of the more than 1,150 Australians who were in Nepal when the quake struck.
It knows it would be an unprecedented move because it would be the second year in a row.
And that could have implications for the country's vital tourism industry of which mountaineering and trekking are major parts.
The true extent of the damage from the magnitude-7.8 earthquake is still unknown as reports keep filtering in from remote areas, some of which remain entirely cut off. The U.N. has estimated the quake affected 8.1 million people — more than a quarter of Nepal's 28 million people.
The government's latest number, reported Sunday, is 7,040 dead, with little hope of finding survivors.
Nepal has been shaken by more than 70 aftershocks, and its people remain on edge. One brief aftershock Sunday afternoon shook this village's only paved road, triggering screams from residents who began to run, then stopped when the tremor eased.
Landslides and poor weather have hampered efforts to deliver aid to isolated districts, and there are only about 20 helicopters available for the rescue and relief operations.
Earthquake victims put up a notice for help on the walls of a temple after last week's earthquake in Bhaktapur, Nepal May 2, 2015.
While the situation in Pauwathok is grave, some remote parts of Nepal appear to have suffered even more.
Volunteers have begun stepping into the void. Late Saturday, Pauwathok's appeal for help was finally answered.
The government's latest number, reported Sunday, is 7,040 dead, with little hope of finding survivors.
